Here's our familiar application set up again, I got both simulators running,
I also started react native debugger which is attached to my iOS simulator because using it on both
simulators simultaneously actually leads to errors,
so that's why I use it on the iOS one but of course we'll always validate all our styles on both devices,
on both platforms.
We get plenty of work ahead of us, so why don't we just start by diving into how styling works before
we add more life to our application?
If we dive into our application with all the screens and so on, right now we use very little styling,
for example in the auth.js file where we have our view and the text, there we don't apply any styling
at all.
Now in typical react applications, you want to use styling and we already had a brief look at styling
in the earlier modules, you learned that for example
view components use flex box to align the items we have in them, like text or the button
and here's some general important
takeaway, the main components
you can style are view and text.
Now there also are some other components
and you might also wonder which styles can you add,
can you use any css style?
First of all it's important understand that as you learned you don't use a css style, instead if we have
a look at for example the side drawer where we have some styling,
you see that we use padding top, background color
so we always use the camel case notation, we can't use background-color like this
and we also can't use this if we wrap it in quotation marks, that would be technically correctly written property
in a javascript object
but if we save this and we reload our Android app, you actually see we get a styling error, that background
color is not a valid style property,
so this is not supported.
There we also see one issue, here we get the error,
that's nice but how can we know in advance what is supported and what not?
Now actually getting this error isn't too bad,
you see a full list of supported styles here,
it's not the most convenient way but it's always nice to have a look at this if you get the error to
see which styles you can use if you try to use one which is not supported.
But of course you sometimes want to write your code without getting the error first, for this case
there's a useful cheat sheet I can recommend,
you'll find it in an article at the end of this lecture under useful resources, alternative
you can also google for react native styling cheat sheet and you should find this github repository
here which is constantly updated where you'll see an overview over the styles you can set up and how
to write them and which values they support.
You see the flex box related styles here
but then you also get a component related styling cheat sheet and there, you see we got four components
where we can add styles because all the other components either don't except styling,
don't leave a physical footprint on our screen or are just composed from these base components.
So there, you see mostly style the view
and here are the styles you can use on that, the text input and also the scroll view and text element
and there you always see how you may style all these elements to look the way you want them to look.
So that's a really useful resource which I can only recommend
and if we had to take a look at it, we would have noticed that background-color like this is not allowed,
that we have to use backgroundColor like this instead.
So this is how we can learn what to use and how to use and it's important to keep in mind that vanilla
css is not built-in here,
it's just emulating css, so it looks like css but it doesn't offer all the features css offers and
it uses a different syntax.
And when we talk about missing features, one thing you will notice here is that for example we don't
have media queries or anything like that in here,
so we'll have to come up with our custom solution for that and we will do so later in this module.
Now with that out of the way, let's go back to that auth screen and let's add some styling to that,
let's work with flex box,
we have worked with it before but it's really important to understand how it works and how to distribute
content with it.
So let's do this in the next lecture.